

Brain Fitness

Recent medical studies bring attention to the positive effects learning a foreign language has on the health of the human brain. Studies by York University of Alzheimer’s patients demonstrated that those who were bilingual had a significant delay in the onset of the disease compared to their monolingual counterparts. Other studies concerning the health of monolingual and bilingual patients’ brains showed that the effects of dementia were less advanced in bilingual patients even though their brains showed more brain damage as a result of the disease.

Job Preservation

Knowledge of a foreign language is equally useful for maintaining employment, particularly in industries where companies look to relocate business or expand into other markets. This is because downsized or outsourced employees who speak the language of the country where the company plans to relocate can gain an advantage in the race to be appointed to a post in the new location. Knowledge of the language of the region where your company is expanding into new markets can make you indispensable to the success of the business as you bridge the cultural gap between the two locations.

Family Ties and Networks

Knowing a foreign language can help keep your extended family intact while also expanding your network of contacts. For example, if your family came to the United States during World War II from Germany, you may also have family members who remained in Germany and others who migrated to places like Argentina and Chile; therefore knowing Spanish and German will help you stay in contact with those family members and will also be useful in conducting any genealogical research about your ancestry. On social networking sites, members speak many languages and live all over the globe; knowing another language permits you to reach people who would not necessarily be in your network due to the difference in language. This enlarges the geographical scope of your relationships and enables you to expand your business and personal contacts.

Additional Compensation

Some employers are willing to offer additional compensation to employees who have verifiable foreign language competency, particularly if such languages are in high demand like Arabic, Urdu or Farsi. For example, the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Language Services Section is dedicated to providing linguists across the law enforcement community to offer translation and other language services. The FBI has developed a special program — Foreign Language Incentive Pay — that awards additional compensation to employees who have certified foreign language proficiency in critical foreign language
COGNITIVE AND CREATIVE DEVELOPMENT

A 1991 study published in the journal “Language Learning,” found that those who learn a second language become better problem-solvers and are more creative than unilingual individuals. Children who learn a second language at an early age generally show high cognitive development in general, according to two studies cited in “The Benefits of Second Language Study” report on the Connecticut State Department of Education website. Studying a second language can help your child solve difficult problems and approach life with a critically thinking mind.
BROADENING HORIZONS

Learning another language opens new doors in life. Bilingual individuals have access to new movies, music, literature and other forms of communication. Exposure to another culture, ways of thinking and new friends affect their development as individuals. When people know how other people in the world think and what they value, it reduces the likelihood of cultural misunderstandings. Your child can approach the world with a more open mind, form new relationships and increase her ability to successfully maneuver in an interconnected world when she speaks more than one language.
ACADEMIC AND CAREER ADVANTAGES

High school students who completed at least three years of foreign language study have been shown to get better grades in college and are more likely to complete college than students who did not, according to a 2001 study, cited in the 2007 “The Benefits of Second Language Study” report. Also, many graduate programs require study of another language. In general, studying a foreign language helps students achieve higher grades and standardized test scores across all the core subjects, including math and English. Also, career promotions may hinge on whether an individual can speak another language. A person who speaks another language often has a better understanding of another culture and can better represent an organization on the global stage.
FUTURE HEALTH BENEFITS

Encouraging your child to learn another language can have health benefits when he is much older. For example, learning another language has been shown to delay the onset of dementia. In a 2007 report in the Canadian journal “Neuropsychologia,” researchers found that being bilingual can defer dementia by about four years. Unilingual men developed dementia at an average age of almost 71, while those who spoke at least two languages experienced a delay of dementia to an average age of 76.1 years. For unilingual women, the average age of dementia onset was about 72 years old, while it was about 75 for multi-lingual women.

 

 


language school for french,german,spanish,chinese,danish,dutch,finnish,swedih,russian,thai,japanese,english,hindi,arabic,norweigian in chandigarh
